# Analyzing-Child-Mortality-across-the-world-RShiny-Dashboard-


Mankind has been battling child mortality since the age of enlightenment. But, advancements in various fields like preventive medicine, economic feasibility of medicines, nutrition has helped us better tackle this menace and save lives. Although, developed countries have achieved a very low mortality index over the years through numerous channels, there are a few countries which lie in regions which are prone to high mortality conditions and are trying to overcome this problem.

Child mortality is broadly divided into two categories; infant mortality and under-five mortality. As defined by UNICEF, “Probability of dying between birth and exactly one year of age expressed per 1,000 live births.” is known as infant mortality. Under-five mortality is defined the same with the one-year cap increasing to five years. In 2017, 4.1 million deaths occurred within the first year of life. This accounts for 75% of all the under-five deaths. 

Our key analysis as a part of this white paper is on clustering the top countries on the basis of their mortality rates. We would follow a waterfall-based model, in which we would first analyze the child mortality indices of various regions. By doing this, we can then cluster the regions into two halves; low mortality regions and high mortality regions. Now, we would analyze countries from the low mortality regions and the high mortality regions and pick the countries with high mortality rates and low mortality rates. This would leave us with four countries in total that have to be compared and analyzed for. Based on the comparative analysis we carry out on the countries we have selected, we then propose a broad solution as a part of our paper which maps the works done by low mortality countries to the hardships faced by the high mortality countries. RShiny Dashboard has been employed to deeply understand and visulaize this problem. 
